---
layout: post
title:  "Timesheets"
permalink: /faqs/timesheets/
date:   2022-08-29 10:19:51 -0700
parent: FAQs
nav_order: 2
categories: jekyll update
---


# BELOW INFO TO BE CLEANED
# Why do I have to record my time?
For as long as we can remember, all quickstart developers have had to do timesheets as part of the job requirement. But who has never wondered WHY?

At the Professional Services Department, we think that every minute spent for the growth of the company should be valued. Therefore time is used to track:

1. The consultancy activities - What we billed to our customers
   This is the core business of the department: As Odoo experts, we help people in better reaching the objectives in our software. These activities are covered by a prepaid pack of service hours.
   The timesheets:
       → show the prepaid Success or Partner packs consumption
       → demonstrate the team profitability level
       → highlight the project delays
       → track the project history
       → allow the transparency of the pack consumption to our customers

   -  Projects
      - PSUS Technical Support
      - PSUS GAP Analysis
      - PSUS Misc.
      - PSUS Quickstart
      - Partner Success
      - Big projects (different invoicing policy)
Remember: A pack is a task within these projects

2. The cost of the ancillary (but essential) activities
   Besides the development and the technical support activities, we lead in many ways to the company's growth. These activities don’t directly entail revenues but they are critical to ensure growth and improve the quality of our services.
We record the time to value

## Projects
### PSUS - Misc.
- [PSUS-TS] Self Learning
The continuous training to improve the wide range of skills required in our position

Examples: functional training, internal organized training, continuous learning of Odoo

- [PSUS-TS] Internal/Team Training
The training or assisting of anyone in the technical team

Examples: Teaching of the How to (explore the software, manage a project, etc.) to a newcomer, doing presentations for team

- [PSUS-TS] Code Review Improvements (CRI)

The improvement of the code and the processes, peer code review
Usually, this is used by more senior team members who help review code for someone starting or in ramp-up and still learning.

- [PSUS-TS] Internal Support
The support provided to the other departments

Examples: Any communication or help with other internal coworkers (Sales, Customer Success, Support, Functional Consultants)

- [PSUS-TS] Meetings
The participation in any internal meetings

Examples: Weekly Team meeting, Morning Standup meeting, AMA, Whole Company

- [PSUS-TS] Spec and Pipe Review
The project management for specific pipes

Examples: Research for giving Estimates, Estimating tasks, Replying to tasks as a Project Leader, Reviewing new tasks in Projects.

This task is used to specific reason and you will be informer if  you can use it or not

- [PSUS-TS] Leave / Public Holiday
The days you are absent
Examples: Sick leave, Doctor Appointments, Vacation

### PsUS Tech Quickstart

- [Trigram]Customer Name : Development Request
The developments requested by customers
Examples: Scripts, Business Flow Customization, Access Rights, Custom Fields, etc.

### PSUS - Maintenance & Migration
- [Trigram]Customer Name : Bug Issue
The bugs/issues with development requested by customers

Examples: Flow doesn’t work, Wrong Behavior, Tracebacks, etc.

- [Trigram]Customer Name : vXX.X(platform) to vYY.Y(platform)
The code migration requested by customers

Examples: Moving from v11 to v14, Saas or SH customers

### PSUS - Technical Support
- [Trigram]Customer Name : Call or Email Topic
The technical call or email requested by customers

Examples: Code Review, Errors in Databases, Email Server setup, How do I do X, Y, & Z?
The main reason why we need to track the whole time and not only the billable time is because reaching the billable target is not always easy, and there are for a lot of different reasons for that. In order to help each one, you, or your team leader must understand how you spend your time, what is preventing you from recording more time on projects.
The best way to understand that is to look at the timesheet you have recorded to identify what is preventing you from working on projects and help you correct this.

## What should I record in my timesheets?
As Quickstart Developer at Odoo, you’re supposed to record all the activities completed during your working time.

Here is how the Development team members’ time should be distributed on average:

| Roles | Billable | Role (non-billable) | Various |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Project Leader | 50% | 30% | 20% |
| Recruiter | 60% | 20% | 20% |
| EXP (Expert) | 60% | 30% | 10% |
| E (Onboarding) | 60% | 20% | 20% |
| PS (Presales) | 50% | 35% | 15% |


## Frequently Asked Questions

Every day you will ask yourself the same questions about your work: “Is it ok to timesheet this on the customer?” Here is a list of the most current issues and questions every developer has had and an explanation to help you record your time correctly. In case of any doubt, do not hesitate to ask your team leader or a more experienced colleague to help you understand how to record your time so on the next occasion you can do it correctly and autonomously.

#### Project vs Training?
Often, you have to spend time exploring/learning Odoo in order to address a development requirement and you question yourself about the most appropriate way to record your time in this situation.

-→ Is it legitimate to record this amount of time spent to learn Odoo on my customer’s Success Pack?

Actually, YES.

Just like a lawyer or an accountant
- It’s impossible to have an exhaustive knowledge of your playground, it changes every day!
- You have to provide considered and high-quality answers to the customer’s questions/issues. Immediacy is not necessarily included...
- Your value added is made of knowledge AND experience gained throughout hundreds of implementations.
- Having said that, rules are made to be broken BUT only:
  - if you are in your ramp-up period (+/- 6 months)
  - if your manager agreed upon it because of a specific context (exception)

#### I just finished my ramp-up period...
During and when finishing the ramp-up period, you might feel uncomfortable to bill the client for your work because you don’t feel legitimate to do so:

“I still don’t know very well Odoo and another developer might solve the issue quicker”
Knowing everything about Odoo is not possible, no matter how long you have been working with the software. But, once again, what the customer is paying for is the assurance to get the best possible solution, not an instant answer!

Your mission is to successfully lead the implementation of Odoo on time and on budget and with all available resources (yours, your colleagues’, functional and technical experts’).

Moreover, the more knowledgeable and experienced you become, the higher the complexity of the developments assigned to you is - Signed Yoda
As a consequence, you will never be satisfied with your technical knowledge of Odoo and that’s great because it means that you keep evolving ;)

From the beginning of your onboarding, your team leader/peer trainer will review on a regular basis your timesheets with you to help you understand why it is fine to record time on the customer pack so you can feel more legitimate quickly.

Tip: Organizing your working time, separate clearly the time slots dedicated to your training and the time spent to implement your project. The first should logically decrease through your onboarding to reach an average of 5% per month (≅ 1 day) at the end of your ramp-up period while the second should progressively increase to reach the defined target: 80% of your working time  (≅ 17 days) should be billable.

#### Being exhaustive vs Continuously jump from one subject to another

As a good team member and multi-tasking developer, you regularly switch from one task to another and it makes the time recording more complex.
→ How to be exhaustive when I complete dozens of short time tasks every day (developing, emails, follow ups, Q&A, etc.)?

Actually, your question is not on being exhaustive, we have to, but on
- not losing too much time in recording your time,
- not driving you crazy in trying to remember what you did for how much time

There’s no unique and right answer but a few tips:
- once a day, gather in one timesheet all the activities related to the same project
- don’t be afraid to say “No” and to simply remain focused on your task
- don’t jump to another task without having recorded your previous task
- pre-organize your work and tasks (e.g. two hours blocks by activity)
- use tools such as awesome timesheet to only remember what you did and not how much time you spent doing it
- Round up your timesheet to the nearest quarter
- etc. (feel free to add your comments)

Which is important is to be fair with the customer AND with Odoo. The time spent to deliver the best service to the customer should be recorded.

#### Why should you round your timesheet to 15 minutes?

All your timesheet should be rounded to 15 minutes and there are simple explanations for that. Through the timesheets, we give to the customer the visibility and the transparency about how we used his/her hours, so his/her budget. Some customers will look at the timesheet and discuss all the time that has been spent, especially for things such as:
- Sending an email to reschedule a call
- Extending a database validity
- …

Should you round this time to 15minutes even if it took 5? Of course not. Actually you should not record it at all because when you work for 50minutes for a customer, it is ok to round it to 1h and so the 5minutes you spent on those admin tasks for another customer will be included in this timesheet.

This is actually fair because in the end, things will be balanced between all the customers you work on. Moreover it will save you a lot of time because you won’t have to justify those timesheets and no customer will ask you why you record 1h and not 50 minutes. It will also help you reach your billable target (remember that in other industries, timesheets are rounded to a half day or even a full day).

Tips:

- If you use Awesome Timesheet, you can define a default rounding in the settings
- Once in V13.3, all of our timesheets will be rounding to the next 15 minutes

#### What if I work with another developer on a project?

You’re the main point of contact for the consultant on the development. It doesn’t mean that you’ll always be the best person to address all their issues. Regularly, you’ll notice that you need someone else’s advice to ensure your mission. For example:
- The issue requires an expertise you don’t have (yet!)
- You need the opinion of someone who already did it (experience sharing)
- You’re thinking about a workaround / development and you need to challenge your proposition to make sure that’s the best solution for the customer

Getting someone else involved is never a waste of time! You might feel that it’s unfair to the customer to record twice the time in these circumstances. But how much time would you have spent if you didn’t ask for help? Answer: Much more!

Always remember that 2 x 30 min is always less than 1 x 1:30.

#### Why must the migration time be recorded on a Migration Task?

The recurring fees paid by the customer covers the technical migration of their database. The customer is paying for migration with their MRR. Even if the time is not being deducted from their success pack, the hours are important to track. We want to record how long the migration is taking and compare it to the original time of development.

#### Why should I record time when investigating an issue that concludes to a standard issue and not a bug from development?

Just like migration, the MRR pays for any bug fixes. If there are any errors, this needs to be investigated first. It is hard to tell if it is coming from development or not. If the conclusion is that the error is not from development but from a standard issue or configuration, the time we spend debugging still should be logged in a timesheet.

## How do I describe the time spent…

#### When I work on my developments, tickets, or maintenance/migration?
Providing a detailed description of the time spent is critical especially for two main reasons:
- The customer already paid the services, our job is to spend their money on the best way possible
- As we mainly work remotely, the timesheet is perceived as a good tool to control how we spend their money.

Good quality timesheet descriptions reduce the probability of an annoying customers’ feedback

- Tip: Use a prefix in a bracket to differentiate the type of logistics
  - Examples:
    - [CHANGE] for the change request to meeting customer <here goes all details related to that.>
    - [RESEARCH] for research on <explain topic>
    - [UAT] for user acceptance testing <explain use cases>
- Example of a timesheet:
  - Bad: Research
  - Okay: Research on how FIFO works with Stock
  - Better:
    - [RESEARCH] code evaluation of stock method _run_valuation() to better understand FIFO operations in odoo to meet the requirement to change the cost price per lot cost.
    - [RESEARCH] Checking the code and researching why Odoo requires the owner to not be set for Valuation. Reasoning: Odoo considers the stock with an owner not part of the company. Therefore it will not perform valuation as it sees the company as just temporarily holding the stock.
- Being precise is highly recommended in your timesheet
  - If a customer contests anything or questions your hours, you can accurately provide a defense as to why you took that time.
  - This will help the process leaders/Jigar(jam) defend your side as well


#### On the other misc. internal tasks?

Having said that, it’s of course clearly less critical to describe in detail your ancillary activities. In this case, don’t use tags and summarize in a few words what you did.

Example: Wrote email and responded to issues about sale orders not being created automatically.


## When do I have to record my timesheets?

Practically, your time should be recorded on a daily basis. Indeed,
- the customers need to know at any time their Success Pack consumption level.
- the more often you will record your time the less energy you’ll have to spend in reminding what you did.

## What should I do if my customer is not happy with my timesheets?

No matter how you record your timesheets, some customers will always say that you spend too much time on some tasks, that some work you did should not be taken from the pack or that he shouldn't pay for some things.
When this happens, the customer is actually asking for a discount.

Check with your Team Leader on next steps. We will either give them all, some, or none of the hours credited back to them.
Please make your timesheet entries detailed, this helps us back up your entries and justify why you took that time.
