---
layout: post
title:  "Development rules"
permalink: /docs/process/qs/rules/
date:   2022-08-29 10:19:51 -0700
parent: Tech Quickstart
nav_order: 3
categories: jekyll update
---


# BELOW INFO TO BE CLEANED

# PSUS - Tech Quickstart Info/Policies
## PSUS Development Guidelines and Policies
This policy began on May 1st, 2021.

#### This Policy Affects:
1. All customers who have purchased Subscriptions after May 1st, 2021.
2. Any customer with no previous development done with PSUS Technical Team
Including any customers with Subscriptions before May 1st, 2021.

#### Rules for PSUS Developments:
1. PSUS Technical Team reserves the right to select what development requests Team may not accept the development request based on feasibility and technical limitations, or if a workaround can be proposed to solve the given business use case.
2. Any technical specification or design Idea written in the task description is treated as a suggestion. The feature development design is done independent of any suggestion based on developers own Ideas and thought process with the Odoo framework in mind. This allows developers to make simple and the most efficient solutions to solve given requests.
3. PSUS Technical Team must own the SH Project and Github Repository
4. Customer will not have access to the SH Project and Github Repository(with exceptions mentioned below)
   1. Their Business Analyst can have access to the SH Project
   2. Their Account Manager can have access after Success Pack is finished and Project Implementation is over
5. No customer created developments are allowed in the SH Project
6. No Third-Party Apps are allowed in the SH Project except
   1. The following connectors:
      1. Shopify/Woocommerce/Magento connectors
      2. For these ecommerce connectors, the customer must install(Click Install button in Apps app) and manage these themselves, PSUS Technical Team will not help with these
7. The customer must pay Line of Code(LOC) Maintenance per each 100 Lines
   1. Final LOC is rounded to the nearest 100 ceiling
      1. Example: 1240 LOC > Rounded up to 1300 LOC

#### Exceptions:
1. This Policy does not affect old customers who have developments done with Old Pricing
   1. Old Pricing is Maintenance for Per Hour Pricing
   2. However, PSUS Technical Team encourages these customers to switch to new pricing when/if requesting additional developments and new pricing is policy is more cost effective and clear. It also keeps R&D Cost of feature and Maintenance separate.
2. Customers who have taken the official Technical Training and finished the Course
   1. Will be allowed to create their own customer developments
   2. Will be allowed to manage their own SH project and Github Repository
3. Partner Development Requests
   1. Partner will receive the development but they must test and install the Development themselves
   2. They will not pay Maintenance
      1. This means they will not receive Bug Fixes or Code Upgrade

All development requests require customers to have enough remaining success pack hours to begin the development(the balance should be at the least the given estimated hours + 30% of the estimate). If customers do not have hours after an estimate is given then the request will stay on hold until they buy enough hours and they will be pushed back in the queue.

All developments are served on a First Come First Serve (FCFS) basis. After the customer approves the development, there will be a lead time to start the development request. Please, check with the Technical Team to confirm the current lead time to set the right expectations with the customer.

Please set these expectations if a customer is requesting developments done by the PSUS Technical Team. Any further questions or concerns can be directed to PSUS - Saas Customization Project Leader, Cindey(CIC).

## General Info & FAQ
Project Leader: Cindey Caine(CIC)

Project Link: [Ps - US SaaS Customization](https://www.odoo.com/web#action=333&active_id=360&model=project.task&view_type=kanban&cids=3&menu_id=4720)

Task Template(Make a Copy): [Template](https://www.odoo.com/web#id=2684795&cids=3&menu_id=4720&action=333&active_id=360&model=project.task&view_type=form)
#### What types of Developments are NOT allowed?
1. Odoo Debranding
   1. Exception: “Powered by Odoo” on email templates/website
2. Whole Website Themes
3. e-Commerce integrations (we already have solutions)
4. Connectors to self-hosted systems or home grown/developed systems
5. Any automation that does not save time or does not help improve process when implementing Odoo
6. API Integration for any feature that is available in Odoo
7. Anything that looks like their existing system

#### What Developments are allowed on the Saas Platform (Odoo SH not required)?
1. QWeb Only Developments
2. PDF Reports
3. Website Templates
4. Mexico Localization Addendas ([doc](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/applications/finance/accounting/fiscal_localizations/localizations/mexico.html))

#### What API Connector Developments are allowed?
For the PSUS team to consider an API Connector we need several things:
1. Clear Documentation from the API
   1. Example: Link to API, PDF of Documentation, etc.
2. Access to an API Testing environment
   1. Example: API Sandbox Account, Testing Account, etc.
3. Flowchart or Flow of the actions that will happen between Odoo and the API software
4. Exact Requirements of the Connector and what information will be transferred
5. Field mapping in the API and Odoo(if required)

If these requirements are not met, we may request additional information from the API Software or we may decline to proceed with the Estimate/Development.

#### Can IoT Box Drivers be developed?
No, the PSUS Technical Team does not do IoT Box Driver development. The customer should contact a Partner or use the Odoo Developer on Demand service for these requests. ([Info](https://www.odoo.com/page/developers-on-demand))

#### SPS Commerce EDI Developments
1. EDI Experts(who to contact with questions):
   - Ben(BMU) (SF office)
   - John(JOT) (BF office)
2. SPS Commerce Integration Options
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DwWyriV_Kj53EqmDostZoY8FXZ0whAVdU-zNHIv9T1w

#### Can Developments be done for Partners?
Yes, the Partner must have a partner pack/partnership.
Some Rules:
1. The Partner will not be charged a Maintenance fee
2. The Partner will be responsible for Testing and installation into their or their customer’s database
   - We will give the customer a zip file of the module to test and deploy into Production
3. If there are any errors or changes, the Partner will need to use pack hours to resolve these

#### What if the Customer no longer wants the Development?
If the Development is still in progress, we cancel the development. The pack hours that the Developer took to do everything so far will stay on the ticket. The customer will not get charged any Maintenance fee if they want to cancel the development. <br />
If the Development is in Production and they are currently paying Maintenance fees, we can remove(uninstall) the development and remove the code from their database. The Account Manager will be responsible for removing the Maintenance fee from their subscription. Create a ticket in PSUS - Technical Support to have this done.

#### What if the Customer doesn’t want to pay the Maintenance Fee anymore(ex: goes to a Partner) or if the Customer wants ownership of the Github/SH Project?
We will transfer the SH Project and Github Repository to the Partner or Customer. Talk to Cindey(CIC) to initiate this. The Account Manager will be responsible for removing the Maintenance fee from their subscription.<br />
Any issues with the original Development will not be covered anymore once they stop paying for Maintenance. If the Customer wants the PSUS Team to fix any issues/bugs, they will need to have Success Pack Hours and we will use those to resolve any issues. <br />
The PSUS team will only upgrade the code in the future if the customer agrees to pay 12 months of backpay LOC maintenance and agrees to pay maintenance going forwards for all their custom modules. If the customer has added other 3PA or custom modules developed by a partner, they will be subject to a code review. The PSUS team can refuse to maintain the code if it is not up to our coding standards or has excess code that is not viable. The customer must also agree to transfer their Odoo.sh project to the PSUS team.

## Odoo Studio: Not Allowed in Developments
#### Why are Studio fields/models/etc. not allowed in Developments?
We want all developments created by the PSUS Technical team to be usable(installable) into any database with no dependencies except on standard Odoo code. We do not allow any Studio created fields/models/views/groups for this reason. <br />

Other reasons that using Studio in developments can pose several issues:
1. Studio fields/models/views/groups can be deleted
   - If the field, for example, gets deleted, this will break the development and create errors
2. Studio fields/models/views/groups maybe be changed during Upgrade
   1. Everything done in Studio is stored in Odoo via Data(no python code gets created by Odoo).
      1. Python code can get added to studio created objects(ex: server actions can contain user added Python code)
   2. During Upgrade, there may be changes to the Studio data. This may cause errors in the development.
   3. Studio Data Upgrade(values in the studio fields) is handled by the Upgrade team in IN and BE in the script that is run to upgrade the database. The PSUS team only handles code upgrades and errors from the studio created python code/views if any.
   4. If the development depends on Studio, this would add more time to the upgrade process as more communication would need to be done between upgrade teams.
      - We want to separate studio from development to prevent these issues

#### How to keep the data in Old Studio fields in new Development fields?
We request the BSA to export the data from the old field(s) and import them into the new field(s). This can be done with a UI import and export with a CSV or XLS file. <br />
Example:<br />
Old Studio Field: x_studio_project_manager <br />
New Python Field: project_manager<br />

The Developer will give a list of new fields that are mapped to the old studio fields. If they did not provide the list, please request this from them.

Our goal of this policy is to avoid BSAs losing any configuration or data that was created during testing in the staging branches. We want to maintain the work that has been put into implementation while also giving the developer a place to work and finish their task as smoothly as possible.

Developers may need to rebuild staging branches for different reasons, some being: the code will need to be pulled to a new database, the data on the staging branch is outdated and needs to pull a new copy from production, upgrade requires restoring a dump for testing, etc.

For Odoo Managed github repositories and SH projects, the Odoo PS team adheres to the following conventions:
- Odoo.sh with one staging branch: we will name the staging branch “sandbox”
- Odoo.sh with two or more staging branches: we will name one branch “sandbox” and second branch “dev-staging” and rest will named to BSA or Customer liking

“sandbox” branch is for functional testing/configuration. It should always be updated to the code/data of production. The data should not be more than 3 months old.

“dev-staging” branch is for developments/upgrades/bug fixes. And this branch should not be used by the BSA or the customer to enter large data or testing configurations.

Customer owned SH projects will have naming conventions based on their own processes, but we do recommend them to follow the ones we have listed above.

The PSUS - Tech Quickstart development task template has been updated to include a section for the BSA to fill out which staging branch the customer grants access/control over for the duration of the development. For PSUS owned SH projects we will use the “dev-staging” branch by default for development.

For version upgrade tasks, the developer will request which staging branch they can use for the upgrade. There should not be any development going on at the same time as an upgrade. For PSUS owned SH projects, the developer may replace the “dev-staging” branch with an “version-upgrade” branch for completing the customer upgrade request .

For maintenance tasks, the developer will request which staging branch they can use for the bug fix. For PSUS owned SH projects, the developer will use the “dev-staging” branch for investigation and testing.

If in the case the customer only has one staging branch, this will be the branch Odoo Developers will also use during the duration of all the development requested. However, we have always highly recommended that the customer must purchase a second staging branch in this case. (NOTE: We are unable to guarantee that a branch will not rebuild with a single branch. Odoo.sh Platform may auto rebuild a branch, if it experiences technical difficulties during merge or upload of a database. The developers have no control on this. However we will try our best to follow the policy and save the build if we can by making manual backups beforehand).

Or if they are deciding to use SH, to purchase two staging branches to begin with. We always recommend having one dedicated development staging branch and one dedicated sandbox staging branch for function testing and configuration.

The customer can choose to go back to one staging branch after the development/upgrade is completed. They can only pay for it during the length of the task.

The specified staging branch will come with the following rules:
- The developer can/will Rebuild the staging branch at any time without prior notice as required
- The developer will be pushing code to the branch as required
- The developer may change staging branch configuration and create random data for  testing in the staging branch

As a Strict Rule now onwards:
- If a customer has only one staging branch then the Odoo Developers are required to make a manual backup of the staging branch before rebuilding as a precaution. This way if it ever needs to be restored, we do have a copy of the data. Important note here, this manual backup may increase their storage usage and also on SH, manual backups are kept for only 7 days.
- If a customer has more than one staging branch then, the Odoo Developers will always use a staging branch named “dev-staging” unless a specific branch name is specified in the task. The developer will not make any manual backup of this branch and may rebuild the branch as required. No configuration should be done on this branch for testing purposes. This branch should not have stale data, i.e. older than one month.

It is the BSA's responsibility to educate customers on how these branches are managed and the rules around it.


# Odoo.sh branch management policies

Our goal of this policy is to avoid BSAs losing any configuration or data that was created during testing in the staging branches. We want to maintain the work that has been put into implementation while also giving the developer a place to work and finish their task as smoothly as possible.

Developers may need to rebuild staging branches for different reasons, some being: the code will need to be pulled to a new database, the data on the staging branch is outdated and needs to pull a new copy from production, upgrade requires restoring a dump for testing, etc.

For Odoo Managed github repositories and SH projects, the Odoo PS team adheres to the following conventions:
* Odoo.sh with one staging branch: we will name the staging branch “sandbox”
* Odoo.sh with two or more staging branches: we will name one branch “sandbox” and second branch “dev-staging” and rest will named to BSA or Customer liking

“sandbox” branch is for functional testing/configuration. It should always be updated to the code/data of production. The data should not be more than 3 months old.

“dev-staging” branch is for developments/upgrades/bug fixes. And this branch should not be used by the BSA or the customer to enter large data or testing configurations.

Customer owned SH projects will have naming conventions based on their own processes, but we do recommend them to follow the ones we have listed above.

The PSUS - Tech Quickstart development task template has been updated to include a section for the BSA to fill out which staging branch the customer grants access/control over for the duration of the development. For PSUS owned SH projects we will use the “dev-staging” branch by default for development.

For version upgrade tasks, the developer will request which staging branch they can use for the upgrade. There should not be any development going on at the same time as an upgrade. For PSUS owned SH projects, the developer may replace the “dev-staging” branch with an “version-upgrade” branch for completing the customer upgrade request .

For maintenance tasks, the developer will request which staging branch they can use for the bug fix. For PSUS owned SH projects, the developer will use the “dev-staging” branch for investigation and testing.

If in the case the customer only has one staging branch, this will be the branch Odoo Developers will also use during the duration of all the development requested. However, we have always highly recommended that the customer must purchase a second staging branch in this case. (NOTE: We are unable to guarantee that a branch will not rebuild with a single branch. Odoo.sh Platform may auto rebuild a branch, if it experiences technical difficulties during merge or upload of a database. The developers have no control on this. However we will try our best to follow the policy and save the build if we can by making manual backups beforehand).

Or if they are deciding to use SH, to purchase two staging branches to begin with. We always recommend having one dedicated development staging branch and one dedicated sandbox staging branch for function testing and configuration.

The customer can choose to go back to one staging branch after the development/upgrade is completed. They can only pay for it during the length of the task.

The specified staging branch will come with the following rules:
* The developer can/will Rebuild the staging branch at any time without prior notice as required
* The developer will be pushing code to the branch as required
* The developer may change staging branch configuration and create random data for  testing in the staging branch
## Summary
* If a customer has only one staging branch then the Odoo Developers are required to make a manual backup of the staging branch before rebuilding as a precaution. This way if it ever needs to be restored, we do have a copy of the data. Important note here, this manual backup may increase their storage usage and also on SH, manual backups are kept for only 7 days.
* If a customer has more than one staging branch then, the Odoo Developers will always use a staging branch named “dev-staging” unless a specific branch name is specified in the task. The developer will not make any manual backup of this branch and may rebuild the branch as required. No configuration should be done on this branch for testing purposes. This branch should not have stale data, i.e. older than one month.
It is the BSA's responsibility to educate customers on how these branches are managed and the rules around it.
