---
layout: post
title:  "Interview"
permalink: /process/misc/interview/
date:   2022-08-29 10:19:51 -0700
parent: Misc
nav_order: 1
categories: jekyll update
---


# Technical Interview Pad Instructions
## Pads
- OLD : https://pad.odoo.com/p/fse01
- https://pad.odoo.com/p/fse03
  - https://pad.odoo.com/p/fse03_es
  - https://pad.odoo.com/p/fse03-solutions
- https://pad.odoo.com/p/fse04
  - https://pad.odoo.com/p/fse04_es
  - https://pad.odoo.com/p/fse04-solutions
- https://pad.odoo.com/p/fse05
  - https://pad.odoo.com/p/fse05_es
  - https://pad.odoo.com/p/fse05-solutions

## The interview pad consists of
- 150 minutes
- 10 questions
- 30 points possible
- 3 topics

### Back End/OOP

There will be a total of 5 questions in this section, including:
1. simple question
2. question that requires algorithm (bfs, dfs, etc)
3. Recursive version of #2
4. String processing
5. Regex

#### Important Takeaways

For the first question, make the question simple, but not something that would be as trivial to implement.  It is intended that the interviewee still thinks of their solution before committing to it in the pad.

For the algorithm question, it would be best to choose a question that is not directly asking the interviewee to implement the said algorithm.

### Front End

There will be a total of 4 questions in this section, including:

1. HTML/JS/DOM related question
2. Async call (Promise/Callback)
3. jQuery
4. CSS/SCSS

#### Important Takeaways

For the first question, we want to make sure to test DOM manipulation.  This could include JS or TS.

### Database

There will be 1 question with 3 sub questions:

The initial question will ask for the creation of the tables that model the problem of your choosing.  This is expected to be done with [DDL/DML](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/14.0/reference/qweb.html#template-inheritance).

For the subquestion we will ask the interviewee the following questions:
- How the tables will be populated given a condition (i.e. if the tables are pre-populated with certain amounts of records)
- How to retrieve data from these tables given a condition.

### How to Evaluate

As the coding challenge is worth a total of 30 points, each question in the Front End and Back End sections get attributed a max of 3 points.  The three points get broken down as follows:



| -- | Does it Work? | Does the Logic make sense? | Is the code clean/readable? |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
| Yes | 1 | 1 | 1 |
| No | 0 | 0 | 0 |


For the Database questions, each answer is worth 1 point.

### Things to Watch Out For

There are a few things that one should pay attention to when performing these evaluations.  Namely, one of things to look out for is any pattern that you may see in the answers for each question.  There are many websites that exist that cater to algorithm challenges and it is unfortunately one of the things to look out for if the code seems familiar.

One of the ways to check for patterns would be to check the code in the Front End portion, as these problems are intended to be Odoo-specific and will test the critical thinking skills of the interviewees.  With this in mind, compare this to the answers in the Back End portion of the challenge to make an assessment.


## Internship Interview Process (2 hours )

- 45 Min Programming Problem 
  - 30 White Board 
  - 10 Minutes Pre/Post Intro
- Code reading (20 Minutes)
  - 5 Min
  - 10 Min
  - Use from problems form below link and use candidate pad for this 
    - https://github.com/jam-odoo/interview-problem/blob/main/code_reading.md
- ERD/UML  (15 Min)
  - 10 min + 5 QA
- Rapid Fire  (10 Min Max)
  - They part of candidate review documents 
- BQ 5 min
  - 3 to 10 questions 
  - They part of candidate review documents 
- Open Floor for Questions 
- Closing Notes
 
## 45 Min Programming Problem Process 

#### Pre-interview Prepare : 
- Review resume in ATS (experience, tech stack, education, read cover letter
- Read  internal notes of the Recruiter (he/she asks series of questions to the candidate to get a general idea of candidate) 
- From ATS copy spad link and use the same old pad for exercises
- Choose the problem from https://github.com/jam-odoo/interivew-problem
- Arrive on time, be aware of your interview times

Introduce yourself and anyone else on call from Odoo side, give their position when introducing so candidates know whom they are talking to. 
(some pep talk can be a good idea here: maybe talk about the weather or something current positive things, help is cheering up and act as a distraction)

#### Overview of what does development services team  do, 

Example: Development services are responsible for creating tailored solutions or business process automation for any business need our customers and partner may have. The team is responsible for managing the Americas region which all the way from Brazil to Antarctica 

#### Overview of Odoo Technology Stack :

Example: This tailored solution and business process automation are created using Odoo for Odoo, where Odoo is multitenant 3 tier architecture designed using PostgreSQL, Python, JavaScript, and Typescript. 

(If you are taking notes then tell them that you are taking and bear with you meanwhile, do not leave candidate unattended leaves a negative impression)


Tell them you have reviewed their resume/notes with Ash. 
Give them a chance to introduce themselves and if they want to add anything else. 

What is Odoo or What is your understanding of Odoo so far?

Why Odoo or Why do you want to work for an enterprise company or business company?

Tech support Qs:

- Tell me about a time you had to face a tough bug or error and how you went about solving it?

Can mix up questions depending on the Candidate's response. 

Move on to the Exercise portion 35 min. 
slse
- Prepared Real World example. 
- Can use any editor on your computer or on your browser. 
- You will be presenting your screen while you are writing the solution and you can present your screen, button in the lower right-hand corner of Google meet. 
- Don’t care about the best solution at first and if we have more time in the end we will focus on that but to begin with, we wanna focus on a working solution. We don’t want any hardcoded/static solution.
- You also won’t be allowed to use google or search for any syntax
- Please talk out loud about what you are thinking, we want to see what you are thinking and understand how you convert problems into solutions, we can help you if you are going in the wrong direction. 
- Your time would start as soon as you start reading the pad, let me know when you are ready and you can start by sharing screen
- Takedown starts time and stop time in pad start and stop time section.


#### Post-exercise:
Cut everything from the pad so that becomes the final solution
we also leave the pad empty.

Don’t have any questions on the solution right now. Also to let you know you should be hearing back from ASH within a week 

 Do you have any questions for me? 
Answer all the questions with patience regardless of the decision, 

Look out for Ash’s response in about a week. 
If we were to move forward, you will have a second interview round that lasts about 2 hours. It will review the skills needed to work here at Odoo.
