---
layout: post
title:  "What do we do?"
permalink: /team/work/
date:   2022-08-29 10:19:51 -0700
parent: Team
nav_order: 1
categories: jekyll update
---


# PSUS Teach - Who are we?

## Why does PSUS Tech even exist?

Imagine you are a customer, you use Odoo for your company but you have specific needs that the product as it is doesn’t cover. This is where we come in. We will analyze your needs, estimate how much time it will take us, and do it. Now your workflow with Odoo is nice and smooth.

## Services we provide

1. [Pre-Sales](2.process.presales.general)
   - Presales technical support refers to technical advice or estimate related activities that occur bedore sale has been closed
2. [Upgrade & Migration & Maintenace](2.process.upgrade.general)
   - Upgrade refers to upgrading customer's instance/databse from version A to version B
   - Migration refers to process of moving customer from their old software solution to new software solution, i.e. moving customer from Quickbooks to Odoo. Upgrade is not equal to Migration
   - Maintenance refers to the process of fixing dev for which the customer is paying maintenance.
3. [Technical Support](2.process.support.general)
   - Technical Support allows a customer/partner to use Success Packs hours to get technical consulting with Development Services Team
4. [Quickstart Developement](2.process.qs.general)
   - Quickstart refers to any development we realise for the client.


## Rules we follow A.K.A the Golden Rules

- We follow [PR process](3.faq.pr) (to ensure we improve as engineers and that our code is maintainable)
- We do not go above the **planned hours** without customer' consent
- We maintain a good **communication** with the consultants and a professional communication with the clients
- Our **timesheets** are up to date, clear and detailed
- We do not do development on **repository** that is not owned by Odoo unless approval from JAM/CIC
- We are not the **bottleneck** (the customer / consultant is not waitting on our input) or we give an indication on the task on when we will act
- Our development starts from the production **branch** (checkout from there) and the staging branch is as close as possible to production (when dev is deployed, you rebase staging on production)
